um so let's go ahead and bring on
lawrence i'm just going to read the
introduction real quick
uh lauren sluck is a london-based artist
filmmaker and musician
who unifies diverse practices cgi audio
visual performance
gaming and fiction into a continuously
expanding
cinematic universe his works include the
cgi film
idol the open world video game 2065
the ai coming of age story geomancer and
the video essay
sino futurism and notel a simulation of
a fully automated luxury hotel in
collaboration with code9
let composes soundtracks and conduct
live audio visual mixes of his works
often incorporating playthroughs of his
virtual world and
we have a special playthrough for you
today as part of this so we're really
excited for that
his most recent release is temple ost
the soundtrack
to a site-specific installation at 180
the strand in london
recent exhibitions include a major
survey exhibition of the artist's work
titled
farsight freeport at heck house of
electronic arts
in basel idol at sadie kohl's in london
that was a big solo show recently in k11
art space hong kong and playstation at
night
and the white chapel gallery london uh
so
here he comes let's bring on lawrence
like time in california now
oh yeah
i also connected with lawrence that same
trip to london
actually in the real world for the first
time and i met lawrence and he had his
uh he had an installation you had that
installation in a bar it was sort of
like adjacent to
a pounding dance club which i loved so
much seeing a video game in that
environment like i was just immediately
drawn into the simulation
um back back in those ancient days
and stuff no but i think like yeah how
how work reaches people is a really
important part of the conversation that
we're going to have today
and so much of your work focuses around
or the way you
your work does reach audiences is sort
of modeled after the distribu
distribution of the video game industry
so we're going to kind of get into that
a little bit later on
um but first if you could just tell us a
bit about your selections for us today
because you've prepared this sort of
amazing walk through for us yeah sure i
mean i was a little bit
um a little bit conscious that it's um i
mean first of all i think it's great
that we have this
really custom made live platform but
it's a surreal experience presenting
work not live and also not quite online
so i wanted to give like people watching
a sense of
the kind of what i'm interested in so
maybe
the way i can best explain it is like i
have a
huge interest in lots of different art
forms so like uh
you know my journey is basically as like
a
to art is through like architecture
architectural design
electronic music and eventually into
like you know the kind of museum and
gallery world
but i still do as much like film and
music stuff as i can on the side
and one thing i really loved is you know
i started being a musician back in the
days of
my space so obviously it's a social
network that is completely dissolved
and not just that but i think two years
ago they like changed their database
and lost all the music that was on there
so it
really just reminds me that you know
these these these virtual worlds like
act as a different kind of memory as a
different form of memory so
you know for example now like whatever
like retro gaming
or like retro technology skeuomorphic
design is really part of
um contemporary like uh culture
but the two works that i'm showing to
cut to the point
2065 and temple ost are about
simulations of these spaces where i have
had
exhibitions so about five years ago
when i was doing lots of really like
site-specific actually architectural
stuff primarily
i was i really realized that the more
that you
do a project specifically for let's say
an exhibition or an event or a
biennial or whatever the faster it fades
from memory which is really kind of
a strange paradox you know you put in so
much effort to like fabricating this
this artwork the sculpture this this
space and then
the next day it's just taken apart then
i thought
actually it's so weird that the you know
the video game virtual world
actually has a longer lifespan than the
whole physical artifact which is
completely
um had a different completely different
value system to what i guess i was
uh kind of taught to believe i suppose
like in architecture
you always see the the cgi rendering or
the blueprint
uh the blueprint as something that
serves you know it's just part of the
process that creates
the final thing which is the building so
i thought like
what if you just took that simulation
that cgi rendering that artist's
impression
and took that as the as the final thing
itself and in doing so it would kind of
free you up from
many different things like obviously
like money property speculation
and so on but you could really think
about injecting utopian ideas into these
works
so anyway briefly 2065 is an open world
video game
that is set in the year 2065 in
singapore singapore is a post-colonial
island nation that was independent in
so 2065 is the centenary centennial
basically
of the independence of the nation state
so as you probably know and a lot of um
ideology about singapore is very cast in
this like neoliberal dream state five
i mean with the same uh implications of
um
you know william gibson's wired essay
disneyland with the death penalty
which uh was commissioned actually for
wyatt magazine in one of their first i
think even their first year of
publication i think in 1993
and william gibson goes to singapore in
1993 which is actually when i was
still living there and he basically
places it as
this um i mean disneyland as a death
with the death penalty says it all
you know which really costs
um how should i say
what when i re-read it now actually what
seems like with all the stuff going on
and it actually very like prejudice and
privileged light over this
um southeast asian nation
and part of what i was thinking without
why i said it in singapore
is even though it's set as a kind of
contemporary setting for like this
utopian control state because of course
they have a lot of like smart city
design going on there right now that
kind of is very um
authoritarian and so on and especially
with surveillance and
and coronavirus um i
it basically was surprising for me to
like reread this this
disney language the death penalty essay
about what 25
years after it's published so i set 2065
in singapore
to kind of play with these ideas that
aren't so explicit
but talk about this this environment
this environment that's like you know
fully technology in a way it's like the
kind of silicon valley dream
right it's like total control total data
of everything
a seemingly compliant population to give
up privacy and data and so on
but at the same time i was asking myself
like what
culture could emerge from that so in
2065 the game
it's rendered from the point of view of
an ai
who has been made by farsight
corporation who's a you know ai company
fictional ai company in order to
make a game so it's kind of like this
hall of mirrors effect you know it's a
game about an ai
commissioned with making a game about
the country that they live
uh within um and next work which is
um uh which is temple ost
it's it's an installation about a
far sights club space actually so as you
might know
um like many other industries uh media
industries um
music is very susceptible to algorithmic
control and distribution i mean earlier
i was saying i was talking about myspace
and of course you know i mean for those
old enough to remember you know there
was debates in the late 90s
napster streaming torrenting
that has all become you know sound cloud
spotify in this different ecosystem
where previously you know growing up
playing guitar or whatever and being in
bands
you think that um you know the
music is at the center and of course now
it's a data point in
in a trend essentially um so temple osc
is about a disused nightclub that is
empty and evacuated
um and it's red it's based on a physical
exhibition but i also wanted it to be
something that had an afterlife after
the exhibition as well
so it's as much about like um nostalgia
and memory
as as about like a kind of celebration
of uh enjoyment and
i guess kind of more hedonistic or free
lifestyle so those are the two words
cool i think with that i'd love to just
cut to the play through
yeah and we'll chat a little bit more
afterwards cool
see you there
[Music]
[Applause]
each night after the fight to pass the
time
take me back
[Music]
foreign
is
[Applause]
[Music]
i
is
[Music]
it's
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign
[Music]
is
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
to the woman
[Music]
you are standing in the desert during
daytime
bathed in the harsh light of the sun
dunes stretch out in front of you
in the center is a familiar object a
london underground train carriage
lies on the crest of the dune like a
beached whale in the desert
it doesn't belong here and neither do
you
[Music]
the train is burning up smoke is pouring
out from the inside
above the driver's car is the sign for
the train's destination
[Music]
temple
you approach slowly gliding
tracking towards the flames
the doors don't open they're closed
tight to keep the sand out
when i was in my bride
i flourished like a vine
there came
[Music]
you walk around
you see the train is in front of a
station
[Music]
[Applause]
the station is abandoned but illuminated
the last person out
forgot to turn off the lights
[Music]
you
for me for them
trees
[Music]
so
on your left is a video poster a new
record has been released
it spins on a loop playing the same
melody
over and over again
[Music]
um
ahead is a neon sign it says farsight
you've never heard of it
[Music]
lo and behold another construction site
the city is being built in the desert
[Music]
is the music from the video or is it
just
music in the air
[Music]
above you a red tower crane stretches
towards the sky
steel trusses crisscrossed against each
other
mutually supporting the forces of the
machine that does the heavy lifting
the red light is still blinking to catch
the attention
of low-flying aircraft that might never
come again
[Music]
on your left a burning construction
vehicle
abandoned by the worker satellite by the
sun
[Music]
waiting for the workers to come back is
the scene one of anticipation
the site before the building comes or
one of demolition
the site when the building's being torn
down it's hard to tell
except for the far side sign above now
larger
each letter three feet
[Music]
behind the club you wanted to get to
a dozen spotlights look for a target to
bait in attention
you go closer hoping they'll identify
you
and shine bright on you but they don't
[Music]
you fly through regardless the rhythm
now part of the concrete floor
in the corner the dj booth it's empty
but the dj queued up records for the
rest of the night
it's only 9 p.m the magic hour
seven hours left to go
[Music]
do
where's the other room the one behind
the camouflage netting
where the smoke machine puffs away
is it dry ice or something else burning
you can't smell anything here
[Music]
[Applause]
so you walk on to the next room where
distant music plays
down the corridor the haze is so thick
you
can't see your feet beneath you
you turn right
[Music]
the side room smaller than the first
but with more memories you've been here
before
at least on the screen four walls of
netting
huffing away jets of haze seven steps
illuminated by the blue neon
three screens telling you the story of
where you just came from
over and over again
[Music]
so
foreign
[Music]
and a microphone with the spotlight
pointed straight at it
you walk up to take your place
nobody's there just us
[Music]
so um welcome back everyone um
and nice to see you both again
and laurence thank you so much for that
um wonderful play-through
um as a londoner obviously one thing i'd
just like to
um i guess first talk about is
um the the use of the
london underground uh carriage and i
feel like that's a really kind of like
iconic symbol of
london identity and yeah i just love you
to kind of maybe just discuss a little
bit about that
for me please sure
i think first of all like it i always
get reminded how generic
most places are you know airports cafes
and cityscape
roads and so on like the whole world is
you know like heavily standardized to be
manufactured
and of course like with the virtual
worlds i'm doing i always wanted to like
there we have a siren invent some kind
of fragment
that is like specific to a place so
you know in temple there's like the
london underground carriages
in 2065 it's set in singapore but also
part of that
it starts off with an exhibition of the
same place
in london in another exhibition and
that had like you know what could to me
i was asking myself what could like
what is the most problematic symbol
visual symbol of what the uk was
at that point which is you know the
union jack uh the flag
and for those who don't know like i
always get fascinated with
digging through the history of these
things that basically the union jack
is three flags in one it's the english
flag
plus the scottish flag plus the welsh
dragon
dragon isn't important apparently so
it's just not there
and who knows with northern ireland but
there's these overlays of meaning
into like these um everyday symbols and
so with the london underground carriage
it was like
you know i was trying to focus on the
spaces that are usually ignored
like you know spaces of transit tube
stations
underground traffic uh construction
sites that actually
are kind of like universal architectural
language of
of um of the city basically so yeah
that's kind of important to me
yeah and i think that kind of sort of
almost like
that it's an anchoring sort of like
nomadic identity as well which i think
that really kind of
is such a like concurrent like theme in
all of your work um which is something
i'm
i i'm really fond of and i think also
it kind of comes down to also your kind
of your own personal
um experience of moving around a lot as
well
and and kind of um
i guess that sort of like um
longing for place as well but also sort
of being in constant
sort of motion but yeah so i think that
was
yeah totally i think i think you know
there's something
like very natural in you know first
person game
basically that has that wondering aspect
you know you're behind the camera
um or you're kind of in control of the
world and where you look through as well
and it's also interesting like this
nomadic idea because
you're like a person's ability to travel
is also tied to like where they have
access to
quite simply you know and in singapore
depending on like
obviously basically depending on how
your social economic status
you're either an expat or you're an
immigrant right
there's like kind of there's a kind of
charge to like which status you have
based on like your means of entry into a
place
and i mean just yeah and you know so i
mean just from my experience
kind of um you know chinese diaspora you
there's so many different levels you
know you have
kind of like at the moment you might
have like a the
kind of base level um labor versus the
kind of um
uh how should i say yeah
all sorts of social economic levels who
might either be compelled to
to travel or have the ability to you
know or have the means to travel for
like leisure or choice as well
so these are all things that are like
really wrapped up into just quite a
simple
first person perspective basically
um which is yeah just quite simply like
one of
access and so what i'm always interested
in as well is like obviously not
everyone can visit the exhibition
either they're not here but at least
some fragment of that might be able to
be accessed online even if it's through
the music or the music video or
something
so um for temple ost
ost stands for you know original
soundtrack i released um
the album for that earlier this year and
then i put together like
i think music videos for all of the
seven tracks like in order
so that the walkthrough can be seen as a
whole by
seeing the music videos as well so
sometimes um
you know you can i'm interested in
different tactics
that play with the distribution of how
works are shown
away from like a kind of spotify or
whatever kind of model
but it's also i think also this kind of
like multifaceted
or um sort of like um
modular kind of approach to your sort of
practice is is is about
um being sort of enabling
um different like you said access routes
and and also it's kind of so someone
might come across your music
one but you know and then learn about
your your art afterwards so it's like
i think it's about also something i'm
kind of really interested in this kind
of idea of maximum visibility so it's
kind of like how do you
increase your invisibility your sorry
your visibility
when you feel invisible or you're
you know you don't feel kind of um and
that's i think also something i'm really
interested in is that how people on the
margins are sort of using
technology to be able to kind of like uh
yeah to become visible so i think like
yeah to be seen
yeah exactly so it's like i i find that
these are all like
these are all kind of strands of of your
sort of web that you're kind of
you know pulling together which i think
is really is really fascinating and we
i know you're like music is such a
massive um
part of your your practice um
so yeah i don't know um maybe you wanna
yeah i have a question that i wanna
throw out to the parents um
which is around the approximation of
reality and even as you were introducing
2065 you talked about you know
positioning it
in this imagined centennial which is
sort of anchoring it to history in that
sense of reality
um and you know i've been i spent a lot
of time with this
uh essay seeing naming knowing by nora
khan
as i was preparing for this event and
just in general i have really worn out
copy here
um i love this writing and one of the
things that nora talks about in here
is um positioning technology as a
simulation a simulation as a technology
of power
and when you know you approximate
reality
people think it's reality and so i'm
curious how
that sort of notion of approximation or
simulation plays into your practice
if you could talk a little bit about
that yeah no it's really interesting i
think
you know like the relationship obviously
with conjuring up in
image and power is central
i think to the kind of political act
right i think you know
um ancient greek philosophers would call
it you know the art of rhetoric
which is essentially you know you're
creating a persuasive argument so that
the people in front of you have an image
of their mind of some kind of like i
ideology or ideal society
and of course with well cgi or any kind
of like um
rendering you know and third right then
urethane style and stuff
um you can create an audio visual
experience holistic experience um
to communicate your vision basically and
the thing about this
simulation is that again it's it's kind
of like um ethically
agnostic it's neither good and bad right
you could get like
kind of like environmentalism that saved
the world for the future or you could
create like a kind of like
xenophobic let's kick whoever out of the
country
so it's deeply um it's deeply
problematic
i think another i mean and tricky i
think another thing as well
is that as simulation and i don't by
simulation i don't just mean
simulation of images i also mean you
know simulation of sound
deep fake technology deep porn all this
kind of stuff
like it's deeply um
even more problematic not even just on
the level of fake news but on the
level of like you know subverting
reality
um that you know the way i think about
it is that because
you know i'm essentially me or a few
friends making these
worlds there's no like that is always
going to lag behind
the state of the art photo realistic
rendering or kind of deep fake or you
know the production of reality
that is indistinguishable from the real
event or object or top human being
um it's interesting as you know there's
initiatives in video games in you know
service industry technology that is to
create digital humans
right so you know perfectly believable
uh virtual human beings who respond to
your queries of changing like a
restaurant reservation or might you know
try and persuade you one way or the
other
um so the simulation is
um absolutely has like a important
political aspect to it
but for me as as i guess like a artist
and writer
you have the ability to choose
not not really even what stories to tell
but what worlds to build you know what
level of world building you go for
and um you know one thing that we're
talking about briefly before is you know
world building is really
for me a very important entry point into
what i do or i'm interested in
and the way i got into art let's say is
is
not by accident because i'm interested
in creativity but almost
my other route you know a bit of this
book i like a bit of this film
and then i go up and i realize oh
there's a way of making it work
um kind of as a as um
you know to pay the bills basically
which is exciting
yeah um we should talk more about that
in the lounges afterwards because we
were just having a lot of conversation
about being
practitioners in adjacent industries
video gaming and technology industries
um and the decisions we make around
those um
those two kinds of practices and how
they're related i want to share a
comment from the audience
karina says ah fantastic work lawrence
i'm so glad we were able to see 2065
and temple in conversation with each
other
and so i want to also center on these
two works
and talk a little bit about how they
functionally perform a little bit more
we talked about the album reaching new
audiences
so in 2065 i think what's really
interesting is that that piece
as you said archives itself and so every
time it's exhibited
a new portion of the simulation grows
that to represent that exhibition
and then by contrast right um thinking
about the albums
and uh temple as the sort of expansion
pack
for your future films can you talk a
little bit about these different models
and
and how you structure that and then sure
yeah also getting into the discussion
around
the difference between first person and
cinematography as your work jumped into
different formats
so i think for me
one of the biggest and most abstract
challenges
as a i know trying to make creative work
it's having continuity basically
what i mean by that is not just keep you
know keeping
you know doing what you love for like a
long period of time what i mean by that
is that somehow
um something about the way that
work and labor get um gets distributed
means that every art form in my opinion
gets
more and more atomized over time so for
example
um you know my friends no one
commissions you to make an album
you maybe make a single or a remix
most likely you're not gonna do any of
your own music because you're gonna dj
at a place to
[Music]
provide a vibe my friends who are
writers no one's going to commission you
to write a novel
or a short story they want 750 words by
friday
at 12. you know um and and my friends
were cgi animators
no one's going to ask you to do like a
web series for
you know whatever adult swim they want
60 seconds of handbags and lipstick for
instagram
at three you know so everything
with creative practice and i mean not to
paint too bleak a picture but it really
does seem
it's smaller and smaller at you know
smaller and smaller sections
of content and so anyway oh even if you
think
insulation it's it's a new one every
time which
it's exhausting i guess so
my idea was like what happened kind of
organically is that each work
feeds into a larger um a larger whole
you know part partly it's the world
building that it relates to this kind of
um
whatever this video i say i made called
cyano futurism
so some of them are a bit more
politically grounded some of them are a
bit more
um you know atmospheric and dreamy some
of them are short some of them are
longer
i think they all fit into a certain
world view
that is i i don't know how to define it
it is what you know i try and describe
as you know this
cinematic universe which is interesting
because of course cinematic universe is
like
a very commercial way of creating
a collective art form which is
let's say the marvel cinematic universe
right
and everything feeds into each other and
everything has its own
ip and copyright protection and it all
makes sense because everything ties into
each other
but i also feel this is it's interesting
to think about that
not as just you know commercial
exploitation of
intellectual property but also something
that
lets you have continuity over a long
period of time
because once you start feeding you know
you know as a as an artist who engages a
lot with the internet i see
it there's a lot of entropy in that
system and it also
constantly wants to fragment into
smaller and smaller parts
of that sense so i think the idea of
doing expansion packs for video games
and so on
even though in in the video games
industry it's
completely a commercial decision about
minimizing extra labor to produce
more content and just you know change
the color change the skin
re-skinning this 2019 edition of duty 17
you know exit from russia whatever it is
like there's a way of playing with these
methods of distribution and and
reworking in a creative world
i really appreciate that yeah thank you
i want to read one more
comment from the audience the audience
is commenting a lot i haven't had a
specific question in comment yet but
nick souda says these kinds of
perspectives are so important now
so much art rooted in cyberpunk
aesthetic is incredibly superficial and
obsessed with the trivial elements of
gibson and blade runner
centering the discussion around perverse
utopia and neoliberalism is [__]
important because this is the present we
live in now
not the upcoming future um and so
that's really nice to hear from someone
who i encountered also in the tech world
and so
you know that's that's an old
collaborator and colleague in the
startup environment coming into this
conversation space so
thanks for the comment nick and if
anyone else has questions you can go
ahead and enter them um in the lounge
we're taking questions
um and zaiba did you want to throw out
anything else to lawrence
um i guess i was i don't know i
had some notes about um
i guess like a bit more maybe about sort
of farsight i
and and this sort of like draconian kind
of corporation
that you've imagined uh in this uh
in in in this in this universe and so i
just
um i guess there's something that
is obviously you know playing with this
idea of hindsight and obviously you're
playing with
um ripping off that sort of like dynamic
of like
um looking into the future that also
kind of
you know sort of reference in the past
and this kind of like retro
uh futuristic um tone
i guess yeah i just wanted to maybe just
yeah
and obviously this is like your your
weaving these
uh different iterations of this
corporation through
these timelines that you're um
manufacturing
i just wanted yeah just kind of to learn
maybe a bit more about
this kind of
sure i mean so farsight is a shitty
chinese copy of google
and they're like basically for my
2017 film cgi film geomancer that which
is set in 2065
and basically 2065 the game is like the
expansion pack for the
to that film and anyway in the storyline
farsight has created this
you know all intelligent game playing ai
yeah
so one thing i'm always about is
my own bias right so i thought
after that film hey wouldn't it be funny
if
i've created this fictional world that
in 2065
but it's like 2018 now so
i could actually instead of being an
artist and you know whatever creating
stuff what if i thought of myself as a
farsight employee
said back in the past in 2018 to fulfill
this fictional world
so a couple of years ago i incorporated
the farsight corporation
in the uk which is now my production
company
so i mean it has all sorts of you know
whatever like
reasons to do that um but the other
thing is
now i realize having met
accountants and you know found out about
like business financing and stuff that
actually
like the corporation you know because
it's kind of a knee-jerk reaction it's a
very cyberpunk thing
human against corporation you know you
know against machine but actually
i realized that the corporation which
has its roots back
in you know maritime england actually
which is to create you know
conglomerates to ensure
shipping vessels for colonial expansion
and twice trade and tea trading stuff
like that's what a corporation is a
corporation as i'm sure
many people know it's a non-human person
which enjoys the legal rights of
personhood
but cannot be subject to the same
discipline or death or punishment
essentially as
a as a natural person which is what it's
called in the law
so far sites it's not just a way for me
to you know [__] around with like
institute you know criticizing this kind
of thing
but i started seeing that the
corporation it's um
it's uh another way of seeing it is that
an
organism is this collective entity
governed by a group of shareholders and
you know stakeholders and a board of
trustees and all this stuff that
the role is to survive to profit
in a longer time span than any
individual human being
so another way of saying it's not to
conspiracy theory it's like it's like a
organism or you could say virus if you
want to call it like that
um yeah so it just made me realize that
actually like i think a lot of my own
like you know bias good versus even it's
not actually as simplistic as
as an evil tyrell corporation like in
blade runner it's not as evil as what is
it
cyber dying systems and terminator right
it's kind of much more
it's much more weird than that that's
all i can say you know it's like
it's not as intentional it's not as evil
it's almost
accidental that these things got created
and persist
you know so and for example we might
talk about the art world or the gaming
industry but again it's
it doesn't really exist but yeah at the
same time it has tendencies it can have
biases
it can you know like eat up smaller
things
but it's like it's much more uncanny
than that i thought
so anyway is my way of looking at the
dark side
from inside somehow you know i think
it's
also yeah playing on that sort of
addiction versus evolution or then
like addiction and evolution kind of
coexisting
and and that's kind of like the driving
force behind
like these kind of products that are
you know that you've created but um but
yeah thank you
that was um that was really nice to hear
some background info
do you have another question from the
audience from the quiet listener
are you a gamer uh what virtual worlds
inspire you
in your studio work yeah i mean gamer
like
to what degree i think i mean i'm i'm
old enough to like
you know have know the whole um
transition from you know console
handheld gaming to like you know
whatever you might call it now
most recently with um uh
i learned how to play league of legends
which was quite interesting
actually um over lockdown
because i had to you know spend time
with my girlfriend over league of
legends and that was the only way
basically
but like apart from that it's weird i
think
oh yeah you know when your work is
gaming gaming becomes
work right so i don't see it
sometimes i just like just play but
somehow
it's like play gives me a form of guilt
because it feels like work
and you kind of work anyway it's even
more problematic
so um
like for example i don't know it's kind
of like
you know when you study a bit of i don't
know like film theory or something you
kind of see
every film as like okay here's the
climax okay
now this one's gonna go bad and i know
what happens and oh here's the twist
it's a twist okay fine so it's kind of
like that
with gaming because to me
unfortunately i mean i'm i'm not talking
about independent indie
experimental games that's a different
thing but you know like
um it is such a well-oiled machine to
take
to take away to make you addicted and
take away all your time and attention
so the difference with obviously console
gaming is that
the game has no intelligence or
knowledge of your state of play you know
they're just reacting to you and
hopefully you'll buy another game
contemporary games it's like you can't
even play
if you don't sign in and they have
complete information
and they know
exactly the right time to be like hey
you haven't logged in in
four days why don't you get 100 gold
coins
so the the economics
of gaming in general now is not
my old school model of like a 10
10 pounds you have the game for life
it's like a constant
drip feed subscription addiction
baseball
baseball defense of your gaming habits
basically
and one of um in sign of futurism the
video essay one of the chapters was
gamble
so one of the chapters was gaming and
gambling and
i'm i was looking at you know the the
which stems in my reading from the
edition
brought about by the opium war and the
opium trade in east asia and china
basically and in overseas
chinese communities so as
a critique of addiction i am very
susceptible
to these you know the dopamine response
when you
get 100 calls of the clickbait that you
get in games
so it's so interesting to observe but i
am so vulnerable as a slightly
hyperactive person
likes clickbait um to the mechanism
so i think yeah i feel like guilt
through playing
it's uh it's kind of interesting
i think we can all kind of relate to
that
and it was interesting when i showed
2065 um
in the show that julia kaginski curated
in soho in new york the forging the god
show
um and you know installing a game
in an art context um especially some
curators and you know
writers were kind of hesitant to
approach the piece and so
it was always this thing where i had to
sort of offer to perform the piece
like the the gaming acuity becomes a
real thing when you think about
viewership of these kinds of works um
and it's something i'm going to talk
about towards the end of the day with
literbo also because they're
now in mmo world in fortnight and that's
a whole nother level like
yeah i gotta get on there create an
account download the damn thing it's
huge
buy an outfit right there's the
monetization so it's like all these
entry points to be able to have access
to some of these kinds of environments
um
but you know it's it's fun then when you
do get the controller in someone's hand
they'll sit there in front of the piece
for a long time and it is that
exactly what you're talking about that
sense of like addiction or that you can
go deeper you can keep going you can get
more you get a response from it
so i think that's been really
interesting um one last thing before we
close out of this q a and hop over to
the lounge
some people were really excited about
the soundtrack
and the idea of getting the album so
just run us through how we can access
that online lawrence
so oh i think just google it
yeah so it's called um temple ost and
it's a oh my god here's the globe i
was joking about so just google temple
ost
on the vinyl factory and it's available
as like a limited edition vinyl
nice custom artwork or a digital
download
and um and the soundtrack
to my my next no not my next
film but my film before that that's the
soundtrack's coming out
is out on the label called hyperdub in
in a couple of months so there's that as
well um
so yeah i really appreciate people
listening super cool
um cool so we're going to wrap it up now
we're all going to hop on over to the
festival lounges
again you can get there by the link
under your
live stream or up in the menu your code
your badge code will work to get you in
there and we'll continue the
conversation
and we'll be back after the break with
zero so
thank you lawrence thanks everyone